Rethinking the thumbnail gallery.   Thumbnail galleries are the webs current  best practice for scrolling through large
collections of images.  A thumbnail gallery is a practical solution for selecting an image or images but the user
experience is poor for browsing images.  Thumbnail galleries are arranged for searching not browsing.   They are often
organized into a  mulicolmn grid and resized to the screen width.  Consequently, they are optimized to maximize the
quantity not quality of the images on the screen.   If the thumbnails are too tightly arranged, they can be
unrecognizable relative to original image.   Increasing the size of the thumbnail can help alleviate this situation
somewhat, but different sized screens will have different results.    This has motivated many web developers to seek out
progressive web designs that adapt to different screen sizes.  While this may result in an acceptable user experience,
it is a great deal of work and never as good as a full screen premium design.   There is a better solution to the
thumbnail gallery when you want the best image scrolling and viewing experience possible.   FSPIV, the full screen
panoramic image viewer is that solution.   

If the images are resized relative to the screen width, the height of the image will be restricted according to the
original image aspect ratio.  Wide screen images, or panoramic images with an aspect ratio greater than 2.0, or a width
that is wider than twice its height, can be  severely impacted by overly aggressively resizing.  Fitting a wide image
onto a portrait screen, can result in an unrecognizable thumbnail.   

Thumbnails do serve a functional purpose, they do not serve an ascetic purpose.   If you want to both browse a
collection of images and also take a moment to enjoy each one, a full screen image viewing experience is much better.   

Resizing images to their height relative to their width is how you achieve the most pleasing image viewing experience
possible.  This does two things, first it shows the image as large the screen will support and second, it eliminates the
need to pinch out or manually resize the image.   Resizing images manually quickly becomes tiresome after only a few
images.    

Keeping images resized to the full screen at all times provides the best overall image browsing experience.   Combine
this with the ability to quickly move between images and image collections and you can easily replace the ubiquitous
thumbnail gallery.  Further combine this with simple user gestures such as panning, tapping and swiping and browsing
large collections of images is instantly converted from a torturous activity to one of the most enjoyable activities on
your mobile device.

When a landscape image is resized to the screen height of a portrait device such as a mobile phone, the image will
extend beyond the screens left and right sides.   The center of the image will centered relative to the screen center.
If the image is very wide relative to its height, such as a 5k image, a pleasant panoramic user experience can be
created.   If the left and right sides of the image are connected, a fluid uninterrupted 360 degree panoramic experience
is now possible.  

Fspiv divides an image into hundreds of vertical slices and draws only those slices that are visible.   The image is
than converted into a cylinder with the left and right sides of the image being connected.  Panning the image cylinder
rotates the image through the device and renders it onto the screen.   The drawing algorithm is calibrated precisely for
a perfect user experience.   All the standard user gestures are supported such as panning, swiping and tapping allowing
the user to efficiently browse large collections of images.   

Because the images are always rendered at full screen height, the user is able to enjoy the images at their maximum
scrollable size.   Images that fill the entire screen provide the best possible viewing experience.   When combined with
a smoothly scrolling image slideshow, the user can now enjoy a distraction free , hands free, full screen image
extragpvaganza. FSPIV examples demonstrate how you can now enjoy your images like never before.

As the images are auto sized to full screen, you will never have to pinch them out or manipulate them in any way.   This
creates a hands free experience that is comparable to watching a video.    Great artwork and great photgrahy can now be
enjoyed like a great movie, in full screen, all from the comfort of your favorite mobile device.
